Deliverable 2:
Liev Wurtzel

Relevant Datasets:
CIFAKE Dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/birdy654/cifake-real-and-ai-generated-synthetic-images
Genimage Dataset: https://github.com/GenImage-Dataset/GenImage

Goals: I am building an machine learning application that can discriminate between AI-generated and real images. This attempts to solve the growing problem of how people will be able to tell what’s real and what’s not. I hope to learn about what the actual differences between real and fake images are, and why they are so difficult to sort.

Approach and Tools: My project is ML-oriented and I am using convoluted neural networks (CNNs) to generate a model using data that is publicly available on Kaggle. One difficulty is that the dataset available on Kaggle has really low-resolution images, so I am attempting to find another dataset with higher resolution images that I could also use for the project.

Evaluation Model: The baseline model (in this case a random guess) would get about 50% accuracy, so while getting over 90% on a specific dataset where the AI images are generated by a specific model is easy, an ideal scenario would be to get a model that can score over 50% on AI images from any dataset which were generated by any model, as this would be better than most humans could do.

Next Steps: Right now I have a working model with over 95% accuracy on the CIFAKE dataset, my next step would be to create a model trained on a larger dataset with images that were generated by multiple AIs and are higher resolution, as my current model scored at about 50% accuracy when it tried to discriminate between images that
were created by different models than the one that the current model was trained on. Ideally I would, over the next few days, create a model that can get over 50 or 60% accuracy on this larger dataset.
